>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome to this
edition of "Beyond Belief."
Because we are
going out into space
with author and astrophysicist
Jeffrey Bennett.
Jeffrey, welcome to
be "Beyond Belief."
>>JEFFREY BENNET: Thanks
very much for having me
here today, George.
Really appreciate it.
>>NOORY: You know, since
I was a little kid,
I've been just mesmerized
by space and everything
that we've done since my
days with my little telescope
to the moon landing
and where we are today.
As an astrophysicist,
you too, I guess,
you were very interested
in science as a kid.
>>BENNETT: Absolutely.
And I also grew up
with Apollo, and it's
hard to believe it's
been 45 years since Neil
Armstrong walked on the moon.
>>NOORY: With that
technology, too.
>>BENNETT: With that
technology, too, yes.
But it got me really enthused.
And I think every
human being in history
has wanted to know, what's
our place in the universe?
What does it mean?
And I'm very fortunate,
as an astrophysicist,
it means I get to, as a job,
learn about that kind of thing.
>>NOORY: What is astrophysicist?
What does that mean?
>>BENNETT:
Astrophysics is really
just the physics
of the universe.
And really today, it's a
synonym with the word astronomy.
So it's the study of the stars,
the planets, the galaxies,
and the entire universe and
how Earth fits into that.
And the physics part
comes from the fact
that today, if you want
to study those things,
you have to do it
through physics.
There's no other way.
>>NOORY: I have got to ask
you about this emerging
theory of the multiverses.
I saw a picture a
couple weeks ago,
Jeffrey, where they had
this massive emptiness.
Let's call it the universe.
Massive.
And each one had
a little bubble.
And each bubble, they
said, was a universe.
And they're scattered
all over the place
of this massive--
this massive whatever.
It is that possible?
>>BENNETT: It's
definitely possible.
I'm not sure it's probable yet.
So the multiverse
is this new idea
that's come about to try to
reconcile some of the things
that-- some of the
questions that we don't know
the answers to
yet, the multiverse
might give us a
way to get answers.
But so far, I think it's
important to remember,
we know about the universe.
We can study the universe
with our telescopes.
We know all about it.
We have zero evidence that
there are other universes.
It's just kind of an idea that's
floating around right now.
>>NOORY: Bizarre idea.
>>BENNETT: A bizarre idea.
And personally, if I
had to place a bet,
I would probably bet
that it'll turn out
there is no multiverse.
>>NOORY: Just us.
>>BENNETT: Just
one universe, yes.
But other scientists will
disagree with me on that.
We'll just have to see
where the evidence points us
in the future.
>>NOORY: Well, let's
take the posture
that there's only one universe.
I still have a very difficult
time understanding the Big Bang
theory.
I don't understand how
all this was created,
how it started in the
first place, what happened,
what was the bang.
Help us, Jeff.
>>BENNETT: Well, one
of the things that's
important to remember
about science
is science looks
at the evidence,
and it can then tell us, here's
what it looks like happened.
It won't tell us
why that happened.
So the Big Bang,
there's a large deal
of evidence pointing to the
fact that the universe was all
compressed to a very small
size 14 billion years ago.
>>NOORY: How small?
>>BENNETT: Everything was
basically smashed together
into essentially one point.
>>NOORY: Like a dot?
>>BENNETT: Yeah.
There's some complexities
with the infinities there.
You can be infinitely
compressed and still infinite
in size, if you're
infinite total.
Probably best to ignore that
and just think of it as--
>>NOORY: That'll
confuse me even more.
>>BENNETT: Right.
Exactly.
Everything that we see in
our observable universe
would have been compressed
to a single point.
>>NOORY: Every
physical thing we see.
>>BENNETT: Everything.
>>NOORY: Every star.
Every planet.
>>BENNETT: All the way to
the 14 billion light years
in every direction
was all in one point.
>>NOORY: I can't handle it.
>>BENNETT: I don't think
anybody really can.
But the evidence says
that it was like that,
and it started to expand
14 billion years ago.
>>NOORY: What was the bang?
>>BENNETT: The
bang is a misnomer.
It's actually a funny story.
Fred Hoyle was an
astrophysicist who
did not believe that
the universe had
a beginning like that, and he
gave it the name, this idea,
the name the Big Bang in
order to make fun of it.
But the name stuck.
There's not really a bang.
It's just the fact that today--
>>NOORY: That's
confusing to people.
>>BENNETT: It is.
Today we see the
universe as expanding.
If it's expanding,
that means in the past,
it must have been smaller.
And if you go back far enough,
it was all in one spot.
So the Big Bang is nothing
more than the moment
when the expansion began.
>>NOORY: 14 billion years ago?
>>BENNETT: 14 billion years ago.
>>NOORY: What started
the expansion?
>>BENNETT: No one knows.
No one knows.
>>NOORY: How did it get there?
>>BENNETT: No one knows.
Scientifically, what we
can say is the evidence
says it began expanding
14 billion years ago.
But why, whether there
was anything before that,
those are questions that
today we cannot answer.
Now, that multiverse
idea is actually
an attempt to try to come
up with some answers to it.
But as I said, I'm
not convinced yet.
>>NOORY: Is it possible the
universe, in its present state,
was always the way it is?
>>BENNETT: Not according
to the evidence
that we see because
of several things.
We see that it is expanding--
>>NOORY: Expansion.
>>BENNETT: Which means it
was smaller in the past.
Also, Einstein's
theory of relativity
tells us it has to be either
expanding or contracting.
So it can't just be
static all the time.
And then when you look out
with telescopes, you know,
as you look to
greater distances,
you're actually looking
farther back in time
because the light has
taken time to reach us.
And when we look
to great distances,
like when we look to seven
billion light years away,
we're looking halfway back into
the history of the universe.
And what you see
is galaxies that
look half the age of
the ones around here.
So we see direct evidence
that the universe
has been changing and
evolving through time.
>>NOORY: When we talk
about expansion, to me,
you expand into something.
The universe is
just merely getting
a bigger and bigger and bigger.
Do you believe it's endless?
We're not going to come up
against a wall, for example?
>>BENNETT: There is no wall.
And Einstein's general
theory of relativity
gives us the way
of picturing that.
And the trick, which can't
really put very simply quickly,
is to think of it
in four dimensions.
The analogy that we can
use in two dimensions
is the surface of a balloon.
So if you imagine
that the universe is
the surface of a balloon, not
the inside, not the outside,
the galaxies are
dots on the surface,
the Big Bang was when
the balloon was very tiny
before it started to blow up.
And as it expands, you
notice the surface just
keeps getting bigger
and bigger and bigger.
But there isn't a
pre-existing surface there.
The surface is just growing.
And in the same way,
our whole universe,
except for in four
dimensions instead of two,
is growing as it expands.
>>NOORY: Like a
balloon, the bigger it
gets, it's going
to pop eventually.
>>BENNETT: Probably
not, at least
according to anything
we understand today.
So that would be the difference.
We'd have to imagine a balloon
that can stretch indefinitely.
>>NOORY: Now the
primordial soup,
as I call it in
the universe, which
I believe is the
same everywhere.
This solar system, it's the
same in another solar system.
The elements are all the same.
I really doubt if
you're going to have
any different kind of element
possible, but maybe not.
Do you think that could
be the case, where
everything is the
same out there?
>>BENNETT: Very much it
is, and we know that it is.
Because when you look
out with telescopes,
you not only can see images,
but you can take the light,
put it through a prism
or diffraction ring,
and spread it into a spectrum.
And you can measure the
composition of things
at great distances.
And what you find is that
everywhere in the universe,
the chemical composition
is essentially the same.
>>NOORY: It is the same.
>>BENNETT: Yes.
And as you know, one of our
favorite topics, both of us,
is extraterrestrial life.
And this is one of the reasons
why scientifically we think
it's very, very
likely that there
is lots of extraterrestrial
life out there.
Because there's nothing special
about the composition here
or anything that
happened here on Earth
that shouldn't have happened
in much the same way all
over the place.
>>NOORY: And if happened here,
it probably happened there.
>>BENNETT: Exactly.
>>NOORY: And if they're a
billion years ahead of us--
>>BENNETT: Then they're a
billion years ahead of us, yes.
>>NOORY: More knowledge,
more everything.
>>BENNETT: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Do you think
civilizations, Jeffrey,
get to a point where they
will eventually die out?
Even the humans.
Eventually, we're going to
reach a peak, a saturation
point, and then tail off.
>>BENNETT: It's a really
interesting question.
My own belief is that
you either-- and this
is very important, because
it's where we are today.
You reach a point like we
are now, where we actually
have so much power
in our technology
that we can do a lot of
really horrible things.
And we could easily
wipe ourselves out
of existence over
this next century.
If we don't, if we find a
way to solve our problems,
that's going to require
creating political structures,
social structures
that prevent people
from using this
technology in bad ways.
And if we do that,
then the doors
are wide open for us
to set out to colonize
the planets, and maybe
thousands of years
from now to begin
colonizing the stars.
And once you do
that, it would seem
like you're almost immune
to being wiped out,
because as you spread yourselves
around to many worlds,
even if one world
suffered a catastrophe,
you will survive
on-- your species
will survive on other worlds.
And you already have
these structures,
political and
social, in place that
are allowing you to survive.
So I think civilizations get to
this point where we are today,
and this is where
it all has to--
>>NOORY: It's the turning point.
>>BENNETT: This is
the turning point.
It's over the next
50, 100 years for us
that we make all
the decisions that
will decide whether we
end up wiping ourselves
out and falling off,
or whether we're
on our way to becoming
a galactic civilization.
Or joining a galactic
civilization that
may already predate us.
>>NOORY: The Federation.
>>BENNETT: Correct, exactly.
>>NOORY: I suspect that mankind
may have obliterated itself
a long time ago and then
just started over again.
And maybe that's
happened a couple times.
There is some evidence
of atomic explosions
in the desert in the Middle
East, where, deep down, they
see glass.
I don't know if that was
an asteroid explosion
or if it was a
nuke that went off.
Is that possible?
Could mankind, 100
million years ago,
have been where we
are today, and they
obliterated themselves?
>>BENNETT: Well, I think
in terms of humans,
of Homo sapiens,
humans only evolved
over the past couple
of million years.
So if you go that
far back, it wouldn't
have been Homo sapiens.
Could there have
been dinosaurs that
were intelligent
enough to do that?
Yeah, that still seems--
>>NOORY: Or something.
>>BENNETT: Yes.
It's within the
realm of possibility.
The more fossil evidence
we get, the harder
it is to see if that
could have really happened
because we're not seeing
anything in the record
quite like that.
And certainly in
other worlds, this
may have happened
multiple times.
>>NOORY: Jeffrey, you're an
accomplished author, as well
as being an astrophysicist.
And you've written a
number of books, primarily
children's books.
Tell me how that evolution
occurred for you.
>>BENNETT: Well, I actually
write-- most of my time
is spent working on college
textbooks in math and science
that I write.
But I'd always wanted to
write children's books.
And so once my
college textbooks were
doing well enough that I could
afford to indulge some hobbies,
I decided that my hobbies--
>>NOORY: Have a little fun.
>>BENNETT: Yes, was going to be
writing these children's books.
So I got started
working on these.
This is my dog Max, who
stars in four of them.
And I thought it would be--
>>NOORY: Max is a
regular, isn't he?
>>BENNETT: Max is a regular.
I thought it would
be fun for kids
to have a story where Max
goes off to various places.
The space station, the
moon, Mars, Jupiter.
And so he goes on these
little adventures,
which are what a real
dog might actually do.
But in the background,
there's always
something science-oriented
taking place.
And then on the
sides of the pages,
I explain that science
in more detail.
So the goal is to get
kids hooked with the story
and then teach them
some real science.
>>NOORY: Always a good
ending for Max, I hope.
>>BENNETT: Always a good ending.
He comes out the
hero every time, yes.
>>NOORY: You've got
some of the astronauts
aboard the International Space
Station recording or reading
these books.
What's going on there?
>>BENNETT: Well, I work at home,
and I do everything by email.
My phone hardly ever rings.
So I screen it
because it's usually
a solicitation or something.
>>NOORY: Or us.
Can you come on the show?
>>BENNETT: I get this
phone call from this woman.
She starts saying, we're
looking for the Max author.
So I picked it up.
And she says, I'm here
with astronaut Alvin Drew.
And her name was
Patricia Tribe, and she
had been the
Director of Education
down at the Houston
Space Center.
And we have this idea to read
books from the Space Station,
or the space shuttle.
And we like yours.
Can we do that?
First, I thought it
was a joke, of course.
But yeah, of course I'm
going to say yes, you
can read my books from space.
And so astronaut Alvin Drew
read "Max Goes to the Moon"
from the space shuttle
Discovery in 2011.
>>NOORY: Live?
>>BENNETT: Not live.
They videoed reading it.
But the video's
posted on the web now.
And there he read a
PDF because the weight
of sending it was
too much at the time,
but it was successful enough
that the folks running
the Space Station, the Center
for the Advancement of Science
In Space, CASIS, they send
all the payloads to the space
station.
And they got excited
about the idea
and said, well, let's
send the actual books
up there so the
astronauts can read them.
>>NOORY: Physically have them.
>>BENNETT: And they decided to
take these five books that I
wrote, and they were
launched in January.
They're still orbiting.
So they're up there
going over our heads
every 90 minutes right now
at 17,000 miles an hour.
>>NOORY: And this is
in English, right?
>>BENNETT: So they're reading
the books-- all five books have
now been read in English.
The videos are done raw.
Now they have post production
and stuff to go through.
But one of them's already posted
on storytimefromspace.com.
But in the meantime,
we've also sent up
translations of the
books for astronauts
who speak those languages.
So Japanese astronaut
Koichi Wakata
read one of the books
in Japanese already.
There is a German astronaut
up there right now,
so we have sent-- we're
working on getting
German translations ready
for him to read from.
So he'll have the book to
show the pictures in English,
but he'll read in German.
The Russian cosmonauts,
we've already
sent them the translation.
And as soon as the
Russians and Americans
start talking better again--
hopefully that will be soon.
>>NOORY: Let's hope.
>>BENNETT: Yes.
They will hopefully
read in Russian.
So we're getting
multiple languages.
The videos are posted for
anyone to read around the world.
I actually just got back
from a trip to Ethiopia.
There, even in the
poorer schools,
there's usually at least one
computer with internet access.
And so they're really excited.
They're going to be able
to show these videos.
>>NOORY: What do they
think of space, those kids?
>>BENNETT: You know,
it's really interesting.
The older kids at the good
schools will know quite a bit,
but the younger kids have very
little knowledge about space.
So we're really trying
to use this program,
not just to-- some of this
is pretty advanced for them
if they don't even realize
yet that the Earth goes
around the sun, which is the
case for a lot of the younger
kids.
>>NOORY: And it's only
6,000 years old, right?
>>BENNETT: They don't have that
part in their culture there.
They have a lot of things
that they need for background.
So one of the beauties of this
program, Story Time from Space,
is in addition to the
videos being posted,
we can post all kinds
of curricular materials
that will work for different
cultures, different levels
of education around the world.
That work hasn't been
done yet, but we're
hoping over the next
few years that we'll
be able to post things so that
it'll make it possible for kids
all around the world
to learn a lot more.
>>NOORY: Jeffrey,
when we were kids,
we all wanted to be astronauts.
We loved space.
I sense that that's
not the case anymore.
I don't hear young
people talking
about being an astronaut.
They're more interested in being
sports figures or something.
What has happened to
the space program?
>>BENNETT: Well, I think
in large part that's
a function of the fact that the
space program has kind of faded
into the background.
>>NOORY: It sure has.
>>BENNETT: When
you put it forward,
when I go and I do my school
visits, I always talk about it.
In "Max Goes to the
Moon," one of the things
that happens at
the end of the book
is they build the University of
the Moon, where kids can go to,
if they do well in school,
can go to college on the moon.
And after my school
presentations,
I say how many of you would like
to go to college on the moon?
And you can bet every
single hand is going up.
So I think the interest is
still there when it is sparked.
The problem is,
when we were kids,
that Apollo was out there
in front of us all the time.
>>NOORY: It was
there all the time.
>>BENNETT: Today, it's
in the background.
And in fact, one of the
really interesting things,
when I do my school
presentations with these books,
one of the first
things I'll ask is
if I'm doing "Max Goes
to the Moon," I'll say,
is this a true story?
And if I'm dealing with
kindergarten and first grade,
about half the kids will
think that my dog has really
been to the moon.
They think we're
going to the moon
all the time because they've
seen Star Wars, all the science
fiction.
They're kind of shocked
when they find out
that this is not something
that we're doing all the time.
And they're disappointed
when they find that out.
So I think there's a real
opportunity and an imperative
for us as a nation
and as a world
to really start pushing
the space program again.
Because this is what kids
are interested in-- if we
can provide it for them.
So if we do it, if we start
building colonies on the moon,
if we start sending people out
to Mars and Jupiter and beyond,
I think that will
make kids all around
the world get more excited
about an education,
be more inspired
to try and solve
the problems we have today and
make this world a better place.
>>NOORY: Aren't we the lucky
ones to have experienced
man walking on the moon and
different things like that?
>>BENNETT: Absolutely.
And as Carl Sagan
used to point out,
you only get to do
things first once.
>>NOORY: One time.
>>BENNETT: And we sent--
during our lifetimes, you
and I anyway, we visited every
planet for the first time
with robotic spacecraft.
And we're very fortunate
to have lived through that.
But of course, first
is only the beginning.
The kids of today
have the opportunity
to be the ones who
take it from oh,
let's just take a peek,
to let's make it real.
Let's make it permanent.
And we need to give
them that opportunity
by pushing our space
program forward.
>>NOORY: What are we
going to do as a nation
to get the space
program going again?
Because NASA, I
think, is under siege.
They don't have quite
even the money to make
some launches that
they should be.
And privatization of
space is starting, too.
You think it's going
to go that way, where
the private companies will
get us back to the moon,
get us to Mars, and that NASA
may simply be a funnel point?
>>BENNETT: Well, I think we
need a combination of both.
Private companies are
doing fantastic things.
But in most cases, they're doing
them under contract with NASA.
So you need NASA
to seed that market
for these private companies.
Eventually, the
private companies
will be able to take
over those things.
But you're going to need
NASA and the government money
to make it happen, to get
that moon colony started,
to get the Mars mission
started, and so on.
And it's really all just a
matter of political will.
NASA's budget today
is, in real dollars,
about a fifth of what it
was during the Apollo era.
We just don't fund
it well anymore.
>>NOORY: It is.
It's dwarfed what it was.
>>BENNETT: And the amount, every
year when you hear the horror
stories about the
federal deficit,
even come October when
they publish the numbers,
until the week before they
get the final numbers,
they don't know
within $20 billion,
$30 billion what the actual
deficit's going to be.
That's more than NASA's budget.
It's in the error bar
of the federal deficit.
So we could easily afford
to put a lot more into NASA.
And perhaps the most
disappointing part of all this
is that studies
by economists show
that every dollar we put
into NASA comes back to us
between 5 and 10 times over
in the economic benefits
that we get out of it.
>>NOORY: And the
overt space program
I think for the
military is ongoing.
>>BENNETT: That's true.
And fortunately, there has
been some interaction there.
A lot of the
military programs do
come into the civilian
program eventually.
But yeah, we need to do
a lot more with NASA,
and more internationally.
You know, the
Chinese are getting
ready to build a space station.
Which is wonderful.
But why are they doing
it by themselves?
Why are we not
doing it together?
>>NOORY: Where's the Federation?
>>BENNETT: Where is
the Federation, right.
And even the International
Space Station,
where the Russians and the
United States and Europe
and Japan have all
worked together
to make this happen, right now
that partnership is in danger
because of the political events.
>>NOORY: I mean, right now
we have to rely on Russia
to get up and to get down.
Would they ever be to the
point where they would say,
sorry, we're not going to take
your people up or down anymore?
Do we have astronauts that
could be stuck up there?
Would they do that?
>> BENNETT: They've already
said that they're going to stop
giving us the rides
as of, I think, 2020.
>>NOORY: So they'll
bring them down, I hope.
>>BENNETT: Yes.
I don't believe they'd leave
anybody really stranded,
although you never know
what people are going to do.
But the interesting thing is
all these political things
on the ground, the
astronauts and the cosmonauts
up on the space station,
they all get along just fine.
The scientists have been
working together just fine.
>>NOORY: Of course.
It's the politicians, Jeffrey.
>>BENNETT: It's just
the politicians.
And that's another
reason why it's
so important for us in the space
program to do things globally
and internationally.
I like to point out that if
we had a colony on the moon,
and international scientists
all working up there,
then you'd have these kids
in Iraq and Iran and Israel
and Palestine, and
they could all look up
at the moon in the night sky,
and they'd say, you know,
our scientists are all
working together up there
and just getting along fine.
What's our problem down here?
And I think that might
have a real effect
in changing the way that people
interact with each other,
and hopefully bringing
out our better side.
>>NOORY: Do you
have-- and I think
you do, just by
looking at your books--
hope for the future
with our young people?
>>BENNETT: I have a lot
of hope for the future.
And I think it's very
important to have that hope.
I like to think of education
as being a three-prong thing.
Education, perspective,
and inspiration.
You'll see that in the books,
the education is the science
content that's in all of these.
The perspective though is
when you're on the moon
or on the space station or
on Mars, and you look back,
and you see how tiny
Earth looks from there.
It changes the way you think
about us and our interactions
with each other.
But then we also have to
have that inspiration.
We have to show the
kids that, look,
if we get our act together,
this is what you can do.
You can go to Jupiter or have
some people going to Jupiter
on our behalf and discover
these amazing things.
Spoiler alert, in both "Max
Goes to Mars" and "Max Goes
to Jupiter," they find life.
In "Max Goes to Mars,"
microscopic life on Mars.
In "Max Goes to Jupiter,"
they discover life swimming
in the ocean of the moon Europa.
And kids can see that and
say, gosh, we really do need
to work and get our
act together because I
want that future for me.
>>NOORY: Have you
turned Max loose
where he runs into
extraterrestrials?
>>BENNETT: Well, the
microbes on Mars,
they are extraterrestrials.
>>NOORY: Yeah, I mean--
>>BENNETT: They're not--
>>NOORY: You know what I
mean by "extraterrestrial."
The big Grays with the big eyes.
>>BENNETT: I have
not had Max do that.
But of course, in my book
for grownups, "Beyond UFOs,"
I talk about what we
might do in that case,
and what the possibilities
for that might be.
>>NOORY: Do you think life
like us is teeming out
there in the universe somewhere?
>>BENNETT: I would be
shocked if it's not.
Because as we talked
about a little while ago,
the ingredients are
there everywhere.
The conditions, the Earth-like
planets, we now know
are out there.
>>NOORY: The Goldilocks zone.
>>BENNETT: Right.
There's planets
all over the place.
There's probably 100 billion
planets in our galaxy
alone that have
Earth-like conditions.
And so given that, it seems
to me life should have got
started on them.
There's going to be
evolution on them.
The same predator-prey
evolutionary relationships
are going to occur everywhere.
Why shouldn't there be?
>>NOORY: Don't you think the
species, too, will probably
look the same, generally?
>>BENNETT: It's an
interesting question.
Species certainly, we know
from evolution on Earth,
there's a great diversity
of body types and so on.
>>NOORY: With similarities.
Eyes, nose, ears, and mouth.
>>BENNETT: Yes.
But there's a lot of difference.
But if you want to
actually build stuff,
there's some limitations.
Dolphins could perhaps
be as smart as us,
but they have no hands.
>>NOORY: If they had
thumbs, I've always said it.
>>BENNETT: They
can't build things.
And so it's very likely
that when you get
to extraterrestrials who might
be communicating and travelling
in space, that they're going to
have some physical resemblance
to us.
Whether two hands and two
eyes is the common thing,
we'll have to see.
But it works.
We know it works.
So why not?
>>NOORY: Well, that
brings up the question
of the great design.
How incredible is
it, Jeffrey, that we
were born with legs to
move, with arms to create,
with a mouth to eat
and talk, with ears
to hear, with a nose to
smell, with eyes to see.
Who in the heck
would invent this?
It's brilliant.
>>BENNETT: Well, you
know, it is brilliant.
But it's also, when you look
at the evolutionary history
of life on Earth, it works.
And therefore, the
evolutionary pressure
is going to push
in that direction.
So from my point of
view, this great design
is exactly what you'd
expect if you give nature
4 and 1/2 billion
years to experiment.
>>NOORY: It sounds
like nature has
a brain to itself
to figure this out.
>>BENNETT: That's a
really good question.
And of course, that's
one that we have no idea.
And I actually tend to think--
I like the force in Star Trek.
Maybe there's some--
>>NOORY: Something.
>>BENNETT: Star Wars, excuse me.
That somehow, it's all together.
But certainly, even from a
purely biological viewpoint,
life has its self
interest in survival.
And evolving these things that
we have-- I mean, look at us.
We've taken over
the planet with it.
It's a great
evolutionary adaptation.
So it seems perfectly natural
to me that all of these things
came to pass.
>>NOORY: When will
we, or how will we,
make these discoveries?
>>BENNETT: We have
to keep studying.
And we have to keep pushing.
That's the only way you do it.
You keep studying the science.
And the thing about science is
that it's never, ever finished.
Every time you make
a new discovery,
as you probe through it, you
end up with a new question
that it doesn't answer yet.
So then you ask that question.
And you make a discovery
that answers that one.
And then you move
the next steps.
There's lots of
history with this.
Newton discovered the law of
gravity, led to questions.
Einstein answered those,
led to more questions.
And we're still trying to
find the answers to those.
The kids today,
they will, I think,
come up with the
answers to the mysteries
that we're now discussing.
But that will--
>>NOORY: Computers have made
it easy, too, haven't they?
>>BENNETT: Excuse me?
>>NOORY: Computers
have made it easy.
>>BENNETT: Computers
make it easier
to study things because you
can do the calculations so
much faster.
But the creativity part still
requires the human brain.
We still need the kids to
get involved and come up
with the creative
thinking that will
make it possible to
answer these questions.
Then we'll have new
questions, but we'll hopefully
have answers to some of the
ones that we're discussing now.
>>NOORY: Jeffrey, if school
districts want your books,
or if people individually
want them, where do they go?
How do they find you?
>>BENNETT: They can, in
principle, buy them anywhere.
But first of all, go to the
storytimefromspace.com website,
where you'll get
to see the videos.
And then also go to my personal
website, jeffreybennett.com,
and you can click
to get direct links
to order the books from
Barnes & Noble or Amazon,
or go to your local book shop.
And I hope you will.
>>NOORY: What does Max
think about these books?
>>BENNETT: I think-- I
always show him the pictures,
but he doesn't react too much.
Max is a dog, and we're very
careful in these stories
to make sure that he only
does what a real dog would do.
It's the people around
him who go, wow, Max,
you're so amazing.
>>NOORY: Well, is
Max controlling
the ship when he gets
to these destinations?
>>BENNETT: Nope.
He's just-- in
fact, he's usually
misbehaving in some way,
but accidentally makes
a discovery that
they wouldn't have
made if he hadn't
been misbehaving.
So all the antics that
Max does in the story
are actually based on our real
dog and the things he does.
And then the artist puts on
the space suit and the space.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
Well, continued success
to you, Jeffrey.
>>BENNETT: Thank you very much.
I really appreciate it.
>>NOORY: We're going to be back
on our next edition of "Beyond
Belief" as we talk more about
space with Jeffrey Bennett.
So just stay in touch with us.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."